linux basic commands
-----------------
1) ls -la: used to execute all the hidden files and used files or folders
2) rm -rf <any folder> // deletes all the subfolders and sub files
3) cd - change directory: which is used to change from one folder to another. by pressing cd you will come to home place.
4) ls - list: it is used to show what all folders or files present in that particular directory.
5) pwd - which is used to find where we are.
6) cd .. : which is used to go back to original place or one step back place
7) cd/ : which is used to go to root directory.
8) ls -l : this is used to find the all the list along with directory and files and shortcut is ll
9) clear: it is used to clear every thing.
10) touch: to create a new file go to that directory and use touch with file name
11) mkdir: to create a new folder we need to use mkdir test1
12) rmdir: to delete directort rmdir test1.
13) cp : is used to copy the files ex : cp test test1. to copy in home cp ~/test test1 which will copy in home folder
14) mv: it is used to rename the file or folder : mv test test1 and also used to move from one folder to another.
15) :wq : which is used to save the file after editing 
16) :q!  : this is used to save the file without new changes.
17) grep "search name" search path : by using grep we can find required line from a large data. Ex: grep "how" rashni
18) grep -i "how" rashni : i is used to find the required required item without case sensitive.
19) grep -n "how" rashni : n is used to find the required item along with the line numbers.
20) grep -in "how" rashni : "in" is used to find the required items along with line number and without case sensitive.
21) grep -n "how" * : * is used to find the required item from all the files without spectfing file names in the commands.
22) vim filename: it is used to open the file and we can edit something by presseing i initally after editing to save the file we need to press ESC :wq
PERMISSIONS
23) for every file it will have write read and execute operations -rw-rw-r-- in the beside line if the line start with - then it is a file after that we have 9letters the first 3 is w-write,r-read,x-execute so when we add a file we wont have permissions added so we need to add them manually. to add we need to write 1) chmod u+x filename ...this code is for staring 3 letters which is used for users. 2) chmod g+x filename ...this code is for second 3 letters which is used for group. 3) chmod o+x filename ...this code is for final 3 letters which is used for other people. 
24) chmod u-x filename : this code is used to remove the execution operation.
25)chmod 777 filename: this operation is used to add read write execute operations without using u,o,g commands.
26) 4- read, 2-write, 1-execute, 0-no permission.
shell: it will take the commends and convert and transulate to kernel.








